Release 1.11 announcement post, change and update notes (#10133)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.11.x/announcing-1.11/change-notes/index.md

---

> title: Change Notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Istio 1.11 Change Notes
```

linktitle: 1.11.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.11.0 release notes.

> publishdate: 2020-08-12

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publishdate: 2021-08-12
```

release: 1.11.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.11.0
---

## Traffic Management

> - **Promoted** [CNI](/docs/setup/additional-setup/cni/) to beta ([Issue #86](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/issues/86)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Promoted** [CNI](/docs/setup/additional-setup/cni/) to beta. ([Issue #86](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/issues/86))
```

- **Improved** resolution of headless services via in-agent DNS to include endpoints
from other clusters that are on the same network.
  ([Issue #27342](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27342))

> - **Improved** usage of `AUTO_PASSTHROUGH` Gateways to no longer require configuring the `ISTIO_META_ROUTER_MODE` environment variable on the gateway deployment; instead, it is automatically detected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Improved** usage of `AUTO_PASSTHROUGH` Gateways to no longer require configuring the `ISTIO_META_ROUTER_MODE` environment variable on the gateway deployment; instead, it is automatically detected.
```

  ([Issue #32437](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32437))

- **Improved** service conflict resolution to favor Kubernetes Services over `ServiceEntries` with the same hostname.

- **Updated** CNI install container and race condition repair container are combined into one container.
  ([Issue #33712](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33712))

- **Updated** the Istiod debug interface to be only accessible over localhost or with proper authentication (mTLS or JWT).
The recommended way to access the debug interface is through `istioctl experimental internal-debug`, which handles
this automatically.

- **Added** the `shutdownDuration` flag to [pilot-discovery](/docs/reference/commands/pilot-discovery/) so that users can configure the duration istiod needs to terminate gracefully. The default value is 10s.

- **Added** an environment variable `PILOT_STATUS_UPDATE_INTERVAL` that is the interval to update the XDS distribution status and its default value is `500ms`.

- **Added** the HTTP endpoint localhost:15004/debug/\<`typeurl`\> to the Istio sidecar agent. GET requests
to that URL will be resolved by sending an xDS discovery "event" to istiod.  This can be disabled by setting

> the following in the Istio Operator: `meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata.PROXY_XDS_DEBUG_VIA_AGENT=false`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the following in the Istio Operator: `meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata.PROXY_XDS_DEBUG_VIA_AGENT=false`.
```

domain in the service's HTTP route. Additionally, Istio will support the MCS host during a DNS lookup.
For now, the MCS host is just an alias for `cluster.local` and resolves to the same service IP.
Future work will give the MCS host a separate IP as is defined by the MCS spec.  ([Issue #33949](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33949))

- **Added** experimental support for controlling service endpoint discoverability with Kubernetes Multi-Cluster
Services (MCS). This feature is off by default, but can be enabled by setting the
`ENABLE_MCS_SERVICE_DISCOVERY` flag in Istio. When enabled, Istio will make service endpoints
only discoverable from within the same cluster by default. To make the service endpoints within a cluster
discoverable throughout the mesh, a `ServiceExport` CR must be created within the same cluster as the service
endpoints. this process can be automated by enabling the Istio flag `ENABLE_MCS_AUTOEXPORT`. With this enabled,
Istio will automatically create `ServiceExport` in all clusters for each service.
  ([Issue #29384](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/29384))

> - **Fixed** an issue to `enableCoreDump` using the sidecar annotation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue to `enableCoreDump` using the sidecar annotation.
```

correctly handle the case where the application metrics are exposed as [OpenMetrics](https://github.com/OpenObservability/OpenMetrics).
  ([Issue #33474](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33474))

## Installation

- **Promoted** [external control plane](/docs/setup/install/external-controlplane/) to beta.
  ([Pull Request #93](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/pull/93))

- **Improved** the installation of Istio on remote clusters using an external control plane.
The `istiodRemote` component now includes all of the resources needed for either a basic remote or config cluster.
  ([Issue #33455](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33455))

- **Improved** the size of container images, decreasing each image by up to 50Mb. As a result, the `linux-tools-generic` package, as well as dependencies (including `python`) are no longer installed.

- **Updated** the base image versions to be built on `ubuntu:focal` and `debian10` (for distroless).

- **Updated** Jaeger addon to version 1.22.

- **Fixed** the upgrade and downgrade message of the control plane.
  ([Issue #32749](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32749))

> - **Removed** the empty `caBundle` default value from Chart to allow a GitOps approach

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Removed** the empty `caBundle` default value from Chart to allow a GitOps approach.
```

  ([Issue #33052](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33052))

## istioctl

- **Promoted** the `istioctl experimental revision tag` command group to `istioctl tag`.

- **Added** `--workloadIP` flag to `istioctl x workload entry configure`, which sets the configuration for the workload IP that the sidecar proxy uses to auto register a workload Entry.
Usually required when the VM workloads aren't in the same network as the primary cluster to which they register.
  ([Issue #32462](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32462))

- **Added** `--dry-run` flag for `istioctl x uninstall`.
  ([Issue #32513](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32513))

- **Added** `istioctl proxy-config bootstrap` now has a short output option (`-o short`) that shows the Istio and Envoy version summary.
  ([Issue #21517](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/21517))

- **Added** a new analyzer to check for `image: auto` in Pods and Deployments that will not be injected.

- **Added** support for auto-completion of the namespace for istioctl.

- **Added** istioctl now supports completion for Kubernetes pods, services.

> - **Fixed** user-agent in all Istio binaries to include version.
> 
> - **Added** `--vklog` option to enable verbose logging in client-go.
>   ([Issue #28231](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28231))

Reviewer 2: Put back in order:
```suggestion
- **Added** `--vklog` option to enable verbose logging in client-go.
  ([Issue #28231](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28231))
  
- **Fixed** user-agent in all Istio binaries to include version.
```

  ([Issue #33447](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33447))

## istioctl

- **Promoted** the `istioctl experimental revision tag` command group to `istioctl tag`.
  
- **Added** `--workloadIP` flag to `istioctl x workload entry configure`, which sets the configuration for the workload IP that the sidecar proxy uses to auto register a workload Entry. 
Usually required when the VM workloads aren't in the same network as the primary cluster to which they register. 
  ([Issue #32462](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32462))

- **Added** `--dry-run` flag for `istioctl x uninstall`.
  ([Issue #32513](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32513))

- **Added** `istioctl proxy-config bootstrap` now has a short output option (`-o short`) that shows the Istio and Envoy version summary.
  ([Issue #21517](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/21517))

- **Added** a new analyzer to check for `image: auto` in Pods and Deployments that will not be injected.
  
- **Added** support for auto-completion of the namespace for istioctl.
  
- **Added** istioctl now supports completion for Kubernetes pods, services.
  
- **Fixed** user-agent in all istio binaries to include version.

> **Added** --vklog option to enable verbose logging in client-go.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- **Added** `--vklog` option to enable verbose logging in client-go.
```

---
title: Change Notes
linktitle: 1.11.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.11.0 release notes.
publishdate: 2020-08-10
release: 1.11.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.11.0
---

{{< warning >}}
This is an automatically generated rough draft of the release notes and has not yet been reviewed.
{{< /warning >}}

# Release Notes

> ## Deprecation Notices
> 
> These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/about/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definitions). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.
> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

No need for an empty section, it just confuses people

  ([Issue #33474](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33474))

## Extensibility

## Installation

- **Promoted** [external control plane](/docs/setup/install/external-controlplane/) to beta.
  ([Pull Request #93](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/pull/93))

- **Improved** the installation of Istio on remote clusters using an external control plane.
The istiodRemote component now includes all of the resources needed for either a basic remote or config cluster.
  ([Issue #33455](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33455))

- **Improved** the size of container images, decreasing each image by up to 50mb. As a result, the `linux-tools-generic` package, as well as dependencies (including `python`) are no longer installed.
  

- **Updated** the base image versions to be built on `ubuntu:focal` and `debian10` (for distroless).
  

- **Updated** Jaeger addon to v1.22.
  

- **Fixed** the upgrade and downgrade message of the control plane.
  ([Issue #32749](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32749))

- **Fixed** Removing the empty caBundle default value from Chart to allow a GitOps approach
  ([Issue #33052](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33052))

> - **Removed** the `istio.io/rev` label injected on pods and replaced it with the `istio.io/injectedBy` label.

Reviewer 3: This is not accurate, there is no `istio.io/injectedBy` AFAIK @Monkeyanator

- **Improved** CNI network plugin to send logs to the CNI daemonset. This allows viewing CNI logs using `kubectl logs`, instead of looking at kubelet logs.
  ([Issue #32437](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32437))

- **Improved** service conflict resolution to favor Kubernetes Services over `ServiceEntries` with the same hostname.

- **Updated** CNI install container and race condition repair container are combined into one container.
  ([Issue #33712](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33712))

- **Updated** the Istiod debug interface to be only accessible over localhost or with proper authentication (mTLS or JWT).
The recommended way to access the debug interface is through `istioctl experimental internal-debug`, which handles
this automatically.
  
- **Added** the `shutdownDuration` flag to [pilot-discovery](/docs/reference/commands/pilot-discovery/) so that users can configure the duration istiod needs to terminate gracefully. The default value is 10s.
  
- **Added** an environment variable `PILOT_STATUS_UPDATE_INTERVAL` that is the interval to update the XDS distribution status and its default value is `500ms`.

> - **Added** The Istio sidecar agent will offer HTTP endpoint localhost:15004/debug/<typeurl>.  GET requests

Reviewer 2: Inconsistent in that the text starts with a capital T on The, and the sentence doesn't flow. Maybe 
```suggestion
- **Added** the HTTP endpoint localhost:15004/debug/<typeurl> to the Istio sidecar agent.  GET requests
```

correctly handle the case where the application metrics are exposed as [OpenMetrics](https://github.com/OpenObservability/OpenMetrics).
  ([Issue #33474](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33474))

## Extensibility

## Installation

- **Promoted** [external control plane](/docs/setup/install/external-controlplane/) to beta.
  ([Pull Request #93](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/pull/93))

- **Improved** the installation of Istio on remote clusters using an external control plane.
The istiodRemote component now includes all of the resources needed for either a basic remote or config cluster.
  ([Issue #33455](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33455))

- **Improved** the size of container images, decreasing each image by up to 50mb. As a result, the `linux-tools-generic` package, as well as dependencies (including `python`) are no longer installed.
  

- **Updated** the base image versions to be built on `ubuntu:focal` and `debian10` (for distroless).
  

- **Updated** Jaeger addon to v1.22.
  

- **Fixed** the upgrade and downgrade message of the control plane.
  ([Issue #32749](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32749))

> - **Fixed** Removing the empty caBundle default value from Chart to allow a GitOps approach

Reviewer 2: Capitialization issue here.

---
title: Change Notes
linktitle: 1.11.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.11.0 release notes.
publishdate: 2020-08-10
release: 1.11.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.11.0
---

> {{< warning >}}
> This is an automatically generated rough draft of the release notes and has not yet been reviewed.
> {{< /warning >}}
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

# Release Notes

> ## Deprecation Notices
> 
> These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/about/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definitions). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

## Traffic Management

> - **Promoted** [CNI](/docs/setup/additional-setup/cni/) to beta ([Issue #86](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/issues/86)).

Reviewer 4: Spacing is inconsistent between bullets. Added suggestions to make it consistent.

Reviewer 3: Also trailing `.`

  ([Issue #33127](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33127))

- **Improved** the XDS configuration generation to cache Envoy clusters, substantially improving performance of the control plane in many cases
  ([Issue #26732](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26732))

- **Improved** CNI network plugin to send logs to the CNI daemonset. This allows viewing CNI logs using `kubectl logs`, instead of looking at kubelet logs.
  ([Issue #32437](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32437))

- **Improved** service conflict resolution to favor Kubernetes Services over `ServiceEntries` with the same hostname.

- **Updated** CNI install container and race condition repair container are combined into one container.
  ([Issue #33712](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33712))

- **Updated** the Istiod debug interface to be only accessible over localhost or with proper authentication (mTLS or JWT).
The recommended way to access the debug interface is through `istioctl experimental internal-debug`, which handles
this automatically.
  

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> - **Added** the `ShutdownDuration` flag to [pilot-discovery](/docs/reference/commands/pilot-discovery/) so that users can configure the duration istiod needs to terminate gracefully. The default value is 10s.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `shutdownDuration` flag to [pilot-discovery](/docs/reference/commands/pilot-discovery/) so that users can configure the duration istiod needs to terminate gracefully. The default value is 10s.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

 ([reference]( https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/annotations/)) ([Issue #26668](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26668))

- **Fixed** where both inbound and outbound apps were unable to intercept traffic when using `podIP` in TPROXY interception mode.
  ([Issue #31095](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/31095))

- **Fixed** an issue where subject alternate names specified in service entry are not considered while building TLS context.
  ([Issue #32539](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32539))

- **Fixed** a bug where multiple gateways on the same port with `SIMPLE` and `PASSTHROUGH` modes was not working correctly.  ([Issue #33405](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33405))

- **Fixed** a bug where Istio config generation fails when the sum of endpoint weights was over uint32 max.  ([Issue #33536](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33536))

- **Fixed** smart DNS support in Istio CNI.
  ([Issue #29511](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/29511))

- **Fixed** a bug in Kubernetes Ingress causing paths with prefixes of the form `/foo` to
match the route `/foo/` but not the route `/foo`.
  

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue allowing ServiceEntries to act as instances in other namespaces.
  

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue causing proxies to send `Transfer-Encoding` headers with `1xx` and `204` responses.
  

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** reconciliation logic in the validation webhook controller to rate-limit
the retries in the loop. This should drastically reduce churn (and generated logs)
in cases of misconfiguration.
  ([Issue #32210](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32210))

> 
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Optimized** generated routing configuration to merge virtual hosts with the same routing configuration. This improves performance for Virtual Services with multiple hostnames defined.
  ([Issue #28659](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28659))

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

## Security

## Telemetry

- **Updated** Prometheus telemetry behavior for inbound traffic to disable host header fallback by default. This will
prevent traffic coming from out-of-mesh locations from potentially polluting the `destination_service` dimension in
metrics with junk data (and exploding metrics cardinality). With this change, it is possible that users relying on
host headers for labeling the destination service for inbound traffic from out-of-mesh workloads will see that traffic
labeled as `unknown`. The behavior can be restored by modifying Istio configuration to remove the `disable_host_header_fallback: true`
configuration.
  

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** support for [Apache SkyWalking](https://skywalking.apache.org/) tracer. Now you can run the `istioctl dashboard skywalking` command to view skywalking dashboard UI.
  ([Issue #32588](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/32588))

- **Added** a new metric to `istiod` to report server uptime.
  

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** a new metric (`istiod_managed_clusters`) to `istiod` to track the number of clusters managed by an
`istiod` instance.
  

> 
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** Prometheus [metrics merging](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#option-1-metrics-merging) to
correctly handle the case where the application metrics are exposed as [OpenMetrics](https://github.com/OpenObservability/OpenMetrics).
  ([Issue #33474](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33474))

> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

## Extensibility

## Installation

- **Promoted** [external control plane](/docs/setup/install/external-controlplane/) to beta.
  ([Pull Request #93](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/pull/93))

- **Improved** the installation of Istio on remote clusters using an external control plane.
The istiodRemote component now includes all of the resources needed for either a basic remote or config cluster.
  ([Issue #33455](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33455))

- **Improved** the size of container images, decreasing each image by up to 50mb. As a result, the `linux-tools-generic` package, as well as dependencies (including `python`) are no longer installed.
  

- **Updated** the base image versions to be built on `ubuntu:focal` and `debian10` (for distroless).
  

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Updated** Jaeger addon to v1.22.
  

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** the upgrade and downgrade message of the control plane.
  ([Issue #32749](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32749))

- **Fixed** Removing the empty caBundle default value from Chart to allow a GitOps approach
  ([Issue #33052](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33052))

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Removed** the `istio.io/rev` label injected on pods and replaced it with the `istio.io/injectedBy` label.
  ([Issue #33447](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33447))

> 
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

## istioctl

- **Promoted** the `istioctl experimental revision tag` command group to `istioctl tag`.
  

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** `--workloadIP` flag to `istioctl x workload entry configure`, which sets the configuration for the workload IP that the sidecar proxy uses to auto register a workload Entry. 
Usually required when the VM workloads aren't in the same network as the primary cluster to which they register. 
  ([Issue #32462](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32462))

- **Added** `--dry-run` flag for `istioctl x uninstall`.
  ([Issue #32513](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32513))

- **Added** `istioctl proxy-config bootstrap` now has a short output option (`-o short`) that shows the Istio and Envoy version summary.
  ([Issue #21517](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/21517))

- **Added** a new analyzer to check for `image: auto` in Pods and Deployments that will not be injected.
  

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** support for auto-completion of the namespace for istioctl.
  

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** istioctl now supports completion for Kubernetes pods, services.
  

> 
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** user-agent in all istio binaries to include version.
**Added** --vklog option to enable verbose logging in client-go.
  ([Issue #28231](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28231))

> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Change Notes
linktitle: 1.11.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.11.0 release notes.

> publishdate: 2020-07-29

Reviewer 2: Also update the date here.

release: 1.11.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.11.0
---

{{< warning >}}
This is an automatically generated rough draft of the release notes and has not yet been reviewed.
{{< /warning >}}

# Release Notes

## Deprecation Notices

These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/about/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definitions). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.

## Traffic Management

> 

Reviewer 5: Comment here just in case I forget, we will need to add CNI beta promotion here: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/34178. Still waiting for TOC approval for https://github.com/istio/enhancements/pull/94 before merging the release notes PR. Will update here once merged.

Reviewer 5: - **Promoted** [CNI](/docs/setup/additional-setup/cni/) to beta ([Issue #86](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/issues/86)).

- **Improved** resolution of headless services via in-agent DNS to include endpoints
from other clusters that are on the same network.
  ([Issue #27342](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27342))

> - **Improved** usage of AUTO_PASSTHROUGH Gateways to no longer require configuring the `ROUTER_MODE` option on the gateway deployment; instead, it is automatically detected

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- **Improved** usage of `AUTO_PASSTHROUGH` Gateways to no longer require configuring the `ROUTER_MODE` option on the gateway deployment; instead, it is automatically detected
```

  ([Issue #33127](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33127))

- **Improved** the XDS configuration generation to cache Envoy clusters, substantially improving performance of the control plane in many cases
  ([Issue #26732](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26732))

- **Improved** CNI network plugin to send logs to the CNI daemonset. This allows viewing CNI logs using `kubectl logs`, instead of looking at kubelet logs.
  ([Issue #32437](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32437))

> - **Improved** service conflict resolution to favor Kubernetes Services over ServiceEntries with the same hostname.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- **Improved** service conflict resolution to favor Kubernetes Services over `ServiceEntries` with the same hostname.
```

- **Updated** CNI install container and race condition repair container are combined into one container.
  ([Issue #33712](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33712))

> - **Updated** the Istiod debug interface to be only accessible over localhost or with proper authenciation (mTLS or JWT).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- **Updated** the Istiod debug interface to be only accessible over localhost or with proper authentication (mTLS or JWT).
```

The recommended way to access the debug interface is through `istioctl experimental internal-debug`, which handles
this automatically.
  

> - **Added** a flag setting ShutdownDuration in pilot and its default value is 10s.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `ShutdownDuration` flag to [pilot-discovery](/docs/reference/commands/pilot-discovery/) so that users can configure the duration istiod needs to terminate gracefully. The default value is 10s.
```

  

- **Added** an environment variable `PILOT_STATUS_UPDATE_INTERVAL` that is the interval to update the XDS distribution status and its default value is `500ms`.
  

> - **Added** The Istio sidecar agent will offer HTTP endpoint localhost:15009/debug/<typeurl>.  GET requests

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- **Added** The Istio sidecar agent will offer HTTP endpoint localhost:15004/debug/<typeurl>.  GET requests
```

to that URL will be resolved by sending an xDS discovery "event" to istiod.  This can be disabled by setting

> the following in the Istio Operator: meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata.PROXY_XDS_DEBUG_VIA_AGENT=false

Reviewer 7: Is this correct?  I don't find how to configure this via meshConfig:
https://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/

I was trying to figure out if this is configured only globally or per service.

cc @howardjohn @esnible

Reviewer 3: It is correct. You can do it per-workload with annotation: https://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#ProxyConfig

Reviewer 3: except I think the port number is wrong

Reviewer 7: Ok, I see port should be 15004.  still don't see PROXY_XDS_DEBUG_VIA_AGENT or anything related to this in the proxyConfig link you sent.

Reviewer 3: proxyMetadata is a map of arbitrary key value pairs that end up as env vars

Reviewer 7: Ah!! thanks John!

> the following in the Istio Operator: meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata.PROXY_XDS_DEBUG_VIA_AGENT=false

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
the following in the Istio Operator: `meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata.PROXY_XDS_DEBUG_VIA_AGENT=false`
```

  ([Issue #22274](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22274))

- **Added** support for overriding the locality of the WorkloadGroup template in
auto registered WorkloadEntries. Locality overrides can be passed in through
Envoy bootstrap configuration.
  ([Issue #33426](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/33426)),([Issue #33426](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33426))

- **Added** new metric for tracking distribution of configuration resource sizes being pushed by istiod.
  ([Issue #31772](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/31772))

- **Added** experimental support for the Kubernetes Multi-Cluster Services (MCS) host (`clusterset.local`).

> This feature is off by default, but can be enabled by setting the following flags in Istio:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
This feature is off by default, but can be enabled by setting the following environment variables for your Istiod deployment:
```

> `ENABLE_MCS_HOST` and `ENABLE_MCS_SERVICE_DISCOVERY`. When enabled Istio will include the MCS host as a

Reviewer 7: @nmittler should we remove the `ENABLE_MCS_SERVICE_DISCOVERY` here, since you covered it in the next bullet?

Author: @nmittler Bump

Reviewer 8: I would leave it as-is ... that way each section is self-contained.

domain in the service's HTTP route. Additionally, Istio will support the MCS host during a DNS lookup.
For now, the MCS host is just an alias for `cluster.local` and resolves to the same service IP.
Future work will give the MCS host a separate IP as is defined by the MCS spec.  ([Issue #33949](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33949))

- **Added** experimental support for controlling service endpoint discoverability with Kubernetes Multi-Cluster
Services (MCS). This feature is off by default, but can be enabled by setting the
`ENABLE_MCS_SERVICE_DISCOVERY` flag in Istio. When enabled, Istio will make service endpoints
only discoverable from within the same cluster by default. To make the service endpoints within a cluster
discoverable throughout the mesh, a `ServiceExport` CR must be created within the same cluster as the service
endpoints. this process can be automated by enabling the Istio flag `ENABLE_MCS_AUTOEXPORT`. With this enabled,
Istio will automatically create `ServiceExport` in all clusters for each service.
  ([Issue #29384](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/29384))

> 
> - **Added** Specify `meshConfig.discoverySelectors` to dynamically restrict the set of namespaces for Services, Pods, and Endpoints that istiod processes when pushing xDS updates to improve performance on the data plane.
>   ([Issue #26679](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26679))

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 7: Should we remove this?  Pretty sure this was in 1.10's release also.  https://preliminary.istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.10.x/announcing-1.10/change-notes/#traffic-management

Reviewer 9: Probably. Guessing the release note file made it into 1.11 but not 1.10?

- **Fixed** an issue to enableCoreDump using the sidecar annotation
 ([reference]( https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/annotations/)) ([Issue #26668](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26668))

> - **Fixed** an issue where app call itself by podIP in TPROXY mode could neither be intercepted by inbound nor outbound.

Reviewer 9: @ramaraochavali does this sound better?

```
**Fixed** where both inbound and outbound apps were unable to intercept traffic when using `podIP` in TPROXY interception mode.
```

  ([Issue #31095](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/31095))

- **Fixed** an issue where subject alternate names specified in service entry are not considered while building TLS context.
  ([Issue #32539](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32539))

> - **Fixed** a bug where multiple gateways on the same port with `SIMPLE` and `PASSTHROUGH` modes is not working correctly.  ([Issue #33405](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33405))

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a bug where multiple gateways on the same port with `SIMPLE` and `PASSTHROUGH` modes was not working correctly.  ([Issue #33405](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33405))
```

> - **Fixed** a bug where Istio config gen fails when sum of endpoint weights over uint32 max.  ([Issue #33536](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33536))

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a bug where Istio config generation fails when the sum of endpoint weights was over uint32 max.  ([Issue #33536](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33536))
```

@istio/wg-docs-maintainers Should we define what uint32 max is or is this assumed knowledge?

> - **Fixed** a bug where Istio config gen fails when sum of endpoint weights over uint32 max.  ([Issue #33536](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33536))

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a bug where Istio config generation fails when the sum of endpoint weights was over uint32 max.  ([Issue #33536](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33536))
```

@istio/wg-docs-maintainers Should we define what uint32 max is or is this assumed knowledge?

- **Fixed** smart DNS support in Istio CNI.
  ([Issue #29511](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/29511))

- **Fixed** a bug in Kubernetes Ingress causing paths with prefixes of the form `/foo` to
match the route `/foo/` but not the route `/foo`.
  

- **Fixed** an issue allowing ServiceEntries to act as instances in other namespaces.
  

- **Fixed** an issue causing proxies to send `Transfer-Encoding` headers with `1xx` and `204` responses.
  

- **Fixed** reconciliation logic in the validation webhook controller to rate-limit
the retries in the loop. This should drastically reduce churn (and generated logs)
in cases of misconfiguration.
  ([Issue #32210](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32210))

- **Optimized** generated routing configuration to merge virtual hosts with the same routing configuration. This improves performance for Virtual Services with multiple hostnames defined.
  ([Issue #28659](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28659))

## Security

> 

Reviewer 7: @istio/wg-security-maintainers anything to add to here?

Reviewer 10: @myidpt @shankgan Anything to add here? Supporting multiple roots?

@yangminzhu @lizan Anything to add to the release notes?

Reviewer 11: ```
- **Added** validation for the `jwks` field in the request authentication policy. ([Issue #33053](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33053))
```

## Telemetry

- **Updated** Prometheus telemetry behavior for inbound traffic to disable host header fallback by default. This will

> prevent traffic coming from out-of-mesh locations from potential polluting the `destination_service` dimension in

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
prevent traffic coming from out-of-mesh locations from potentially polluting the `destination_service` dimension in
```

metrics with junk data (and exploding metrics cardinality). With this change, it is possible that users relying on
host headers for labeling the destination service for inbound traffic from out-of-mesh workloads will see that traffic
labeled as `unknown`. The behavior can be restored by modifying Istio configuration to remove the `disable_host_header_fallback: true`
configuration.
  

- **Added** support for [Apache SkyWalking](https://skywalking.apache.org/) tracer. Now you can run the `istioctl dashboard skywalking` command to view skywalking dashboard UI.
  ([Issue #32588](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/32588))

- **Added** a new metric to `istiod` to report server uptime.
  

- **Added** a new metric (`istiod_managed_clusters`) to `istiod` to track the number of clusters managed by an
`istiod` instance.
  

- **Fixed** Prometheus [metrics merging](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#option-1-metrics-merging) to
correctly handle the case where the application metrics are exposed as [OpenMetrics](https://github.com/OpenObservability/OpenMetrics).
  ([Issue #33474](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33474))

## Extensibility

> 

Reviewer 7: @istio/wg-policies-and-telemetry-maintainers anything worth mentioning here?

Reviewer 10: @myidpt @shankgan Anything to add here? Supporting multiple roots?

@yangminzhu @lizan Anything to add to the release notes?

Author: @istio/wg-policies-and-telemetry-maintainers Bump

Reviewer 5: I cannot think of anything. @kyessenov @mandarjog @dgn @mathetake Can you think of anything? If not, we probably could remove this section.

Reviewer 12: nothing from my side

## Installation

> 

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion

- **Promoted** [external control plane](/docs/setup/install/external-controlplane/) to beta.
  ([Pull Request #93](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/pull/93))
```

- **Improved** the installation of Istio on remote clusters using an external control plane.
The istiodRemote component now includes all of the resources needed for either a basic remote or config cluster.
  ([Issue #33455](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33455))

> - **Improved** the size of docker images, decreasing each image by up to 50mb. As a result, the `linux-tools-generic` package, as well as dependencies (including `python`) are no longer installed.
>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** the size of container images, decreasing each image by up to 50mb. As a result, the `linux-tools-generic` package, as well as dependencies (including `python`) are no longer installed.
  
```

(Say which ones?  All of them, including the proxy?)

Reviewer 3: All of them, they share a common base

- **Updated** the base image versions to be built on `ubuntu:focal` and `debian10` (for distroless).
  

> - **Updated** Jaeger addon to the latest version v1.22.

Reviewer 9: Should this be:
```
- **Updated** Jaeger addon to the latest version, v1.22.
```

or 
```
**Updated Jaeger addon to v1.11
```

  

- **Fixed** the upgrade and downgrade message of the control plane.
  ([Issue #32749](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32749))

> - **Fixed** Removing caBundle default value from Chart to allow a GitOps approach

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** Removing the empty caBundle default value from Chart to allow a GitOps approach
```

  ([Issue #33052](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33052))

- **Removed** the `istio.io/rev` label injected on pods and replaced it with the `istio.io/injectedBy` label.
  ([Issue #33447](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33447))

## istioctl

- **Promoted** the `istioctl experimental revision tag` command group to `istioctl tag`.
  

- **Added** `--workloadIP` flag to `istioctl x workload entry configure`, which sets the configuration for the workload IP that the sidecar proxy uses to auto register a workload Entry. 
Usually required when the VM workloads aren't in the same network as the primary cluster to which they register. 
  ([Issue #32462](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32462))

- **Added** `--dry-run` flag for `istioctl x uninstall`.
  ([Issue #32513](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32513))

> - **Added** `istioctl proxy-config bootstrap` now has a short output option (`-o short`) that shows an Istio and Envoy version summary.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
- **Added** `istioctl proxy-config bootstrap` now has a short output option (`-o short`) that shows the Istio and Envoy version summary.
```

---
title: Change Notes
linktitle: 1.11.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.11.0 release notes.
publishdate: 2020-07-29
release: 1.11.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.11.0
---

{{< warning >}}
This is an automatically generated rough draft of the release notes and has not yet been reviewed.
{{< /warning >}}

# Release Notes

## Deprecation Notices

These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/about/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definitions). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.

## Traffic Management

- **Improved** resolution of headless services via in-agent DNS to include endpoints
from other clusters that are on the same network.
  ([Issue #27342](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27342))

> - **Improved** usage of AUTO_PASSTHROUGH Gateways to no longer require configuring the `ROUTER_MODE` option on the gateway deployment; instead, it is automatically detected

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- **Improved** usage of AUTO_PASSTHROUGH Gateways to no longer require configuring the `ISTIO_META_ROUTER_MODE` environment variable on the gateway deployment; instead, it is automatically detected
```

  ([Issue #33127](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33127))

- **Improved** the XDS configuration generation to cache Envoy clusters, substantially improving performance of the control plane in many cases
  ([Issue #26732](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26732))

- **Improved** CNI network plugin to send logs to the CNI daemonset. This allows viewing CNI logs using `kubectl logs`, instead of looking at kubelet logs.
  ([Issue #32437](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/32437))

- **Improved** service conflict resolution to favor Kubernetes Services over ServiceEntries with the same hostname.

>   

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

>   
> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  
```
